---
title: History
date: 2018-07-23
tags: ["team"]
author: Michael
---
<h5> Seed of an Idea </h5>
It started in Fall 2015, junior year of college. Hao and myself were roommates. We were both taking classes on design and manufacturing. 
<br>
<br>
Before this, we had each used a 3d printer once or twice for some small projects. But we were never too impressed with what came out. You could get a tiny, flimsy, inaccurate part made in a couple of hours, while more complex prints could take days. Much hasn't changed unless you're willing to shell out over $5000.
<br> 
<br>
<h5> Beast 3d Printer </h5>
To correct this problem, we set out to build a fast, accurate 3d printer that costs under $1000. Built from a frame of 80/20 aluminum, aluminum connecting plates and mounts, and lead screw linear actuators, it could achieve 0.12 mm (0.005 in.) repeatable accuracy. It resembled a hobby CNC mill project more than a 3d printer. 
<br>
<br>
We came to realize how tedious and time consuming it was to use a milling machine, especially for the dozens of simple plates and mounts in the 3d printer. 
<br>
<br>
<h5> Modular Beast </h5>
Hoping to combine the benefits of each technology - 3d printing and CNC milling - Hao had the idea to build a modular machine that could do both by just swapping out the modules. We designed the machine in Spring 2017.
<br>
<br>
We soon learned that other products like BoXZY and Snapmaker already attempted to solve this problem. Snapmaker proved to be a very successful low cost option for a modular 3d printer, laser engraver, and mill. It resembles a hobby 3d printer more than a mill, and proves to be less functional as a mill for that reason. 
<br>
<br>
<h5> Birth of BumbleBeast </h5>
At this point we thought, 'Why don't we build something with modularity, accessibility, and a desktop footprint - all of the things that make 3d printing great - but with the most functional milling capability as possible.' 
<br>
<br>
That's why we made <a href="https://blog.bumblebeast.co/2018/07/intro-to-bumblebeast/">BumbleBeast.</a> 
